= plugin_test_helper

+plugin_test_helper+ simplifies plugin testing by creating an isolated Rails
environment that simulates its usage in a real application.

== Resources

API

* http://api.pluginaweek.org/plugin_test_helper

Bugs

* http://pluginaweek.lighthouseapp.com/projects/13283-plugin_test_helper

Development

* http://github.com/pluginaweek/plugin_test_helper

Source

* git://github.com/pluginaweek/plugin_test_helper.git

== Description

Plugins often need to initialize a full Rails environment, whether it be for
accessing a database or simulating controller access.  Traditionally, this has
been done by just loading the application that the plugin was added to.
However, this can cause all sorts of environment variables to change, making it
seem as though the plugin is having problems when it may be something else. It
also means that the plugin cannot be tested individually.

+plugin_test_helper+ helps solve this problem by allowing plugins to create their
own basic Rails environment with the ability to override any part of it, be it
the database configuration, environment configuration, or adding models,
controllers, helpers, etc.  The following testing structure is assumed:

  your_plugin/
  your_plugin/test
  your_plugin/test/app_root
  your_plugin/test/app_root/app
  your_plugin/test/app_root/config
  your_plugin/test/app_root/db
  etc.

The +app_root+ directory is just like your run-of-the-mill Rails application.  It
can contain the same directories as your full application.

To help generate the various parts of your test application, the following
generators are available:
* plugin_test_helper
* plugin_test_structure
* plugin_test_model
* plugin_test_controller
* plugin_test_migration

*NOTE* that you <b>DO NOT</b> need to generate the entire application structure.  All
that is required is that your test helper load plugin_test_helper.  If you do
not define a part of the test application (such as the environment
configurations or the database configuration), then it will use the existing
implementation in <tt>plugin_test_helper/generators/plugin_test_structure/templates</tt>.
*However*, you can override any of these files by simply defining them in your
plugin, using the same directory structure.

== Usage

=== plugin_test_helper

Generates a test helper file that should be required by all unit/functional/integration
tests in your plugin.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_helper acts_as_most_popular
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/test_helper.rb
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000439 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

=== plugin_test_structure

Generates the entire test application structure.  If you keep all files within
your plugin, then you will not need to depend on the +plugin_test_helper+ plugin
when testing it.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_structure acts_as_most_popular
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/lib
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/routes.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/boot.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environment.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/database.yml
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments/sqlite.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments/sqlite3.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments/mysql.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments/in_memory.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/config/environments/postgresql.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/controllers
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/controllers/application_controller.rb
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000548 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

=== plugin_test_model

Generates a model within your plugin's test application.  This uses a similar
syntax to that of the Rails model generator.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_model acts_as_most_popular Person
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/models/
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/test/fixtures/
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/models/person.rb
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/test/fixtures/people.yml
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/db/migrate
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/db/migrate/001_create_people.rb
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000435 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

=== plugin_test_controller

Generates a controller within your plugin's test application.  This uses a similar
syntax to that of the Rails controller generator.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_controller acts_as_most_popular Person
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/controllers/
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/views/person
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/app/controllers/person_controller.rb
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000432 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

=== plugin_test_migration

Generates a migration within your plugin's test application.  This uses a similar
syntax to that of the Rails migration generator.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_migration acts_as_most_popular CreatePeople
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/db/migrate
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/db/migrate/001_create_people.rb
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000443 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

=== plugin_test_console

Generates a script for running an interactive console with your plugin's test
application.

Example:

  $ ruby script/generate plugin_test_console acts_as_most_popular
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/../../script
        create  vendor/plugins/acts_as_most_popular/test/app_root/../../script/console
  Loaded suite script/generate
  Started
  
  Finished in 0.000267 seconds.
  
  0 tests, 0 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors

== Dependencies

Rails 2.3 or later

== References

* {Mark Meves}[http://rationalexuberance.org] for the initial implementation
